# JuniorIS

Color and Texture Patterns Effect on User Experience on a Natural History Timeline Webpage

The software will consist of a website built with html and CSS for visuals (which are relevant to the topic) and have a backend that is using flask in Python to support more interactive features with the user. The website will show a timeline starting back from when the first evidence of life was found to the present and the focus will be on extinctions. Mass extinction events are one kind, but the inception and (if applicable) extinction of particular taxonomic groups of organisms such as the first plants or amphibians will be included too. Other events that are relevant such as the formation of Pangea will be included too. Some of these events stretch over much longer periods of time than others, so some events can be represented with bars that appear above the timeline that extend over the period of time that they happened. The user can select or deselect items to display on the timeline which will be shown through a dropdown menu. The timeline and the events will be created as html objects on the page. There will only be one page in the website, but depending on which items the user selects the page will have to display differently. The Python will be used to change what's being displayed based on what the user selects.
There will be two versions of the website. The only differences between them will be color or texture of some of the visual objects including the timeline, the things on it, and the menus. In one version, the timeline will have its own color gradient going from dark in the oldest part to light in the present. The events will be colored the same as the color of where they appear on the timeline so people can tell how old they are relatively to each other a little bit easier than just seeing exactly where they appear on the timeline. There will also be categories that differentiate some of the events such as geological events, defined periods like the Cretaceous, and specific extinctions or period slabs of when a certain group began. In the other version, there will still be texture and colors involved for the purposes of making it possible to read the text against a white background, for example, but no patterns will be used that are relevant to the content. There will be no other differences between the two websites. CSS is perfect to use for the textures and colors.
